ACID Properties in DBMS
DBMS is the management of data that should remain integrated when any changes are done in it.
 It is because if the integrity of the data is affected, whole data will get disturbed and corrupted. 
Therefore, to maintain the integrity of the data, there are four properties described in the database management system, which are known as the ACID properties.
 The ACID properties are meant for the transaction that goes through a different group of tasks, and there we come to see the role of the ACID properties.
In this section, we will learn and understand about the ACID properties. 
We will learn what these properties stand for and what does each property is used for. 
We will also understand the ACID properties with the help of some examples.

ACID Properties
There are four types:
1)Atomicity
2) Consistency
3)Durability
4)Durability


1) Atomicity
Atomicity ensures that a transaction is treated as a single, indivisible unit of work. 
Either all the operations within the transaction are completed successfully, or none of them are. 
If any part of the transaction fails, the entire transaction is rolled back to its original state, ensuring data consistency and integrity.

The term atomicity defines that the data remains atomic. 
It means if any operation is performed on the data, either it should be performed or executed completely or should not be executed at all.
 It further means that the operation should not break in between or execute partially.
 In the case of executing operations on the transaction, the operation should be completely executed and not partially.


2) Consistency
Consistency ensures that a transaction takes the database from one consistent state to another consistent state. 
The database is in a consistent state both before and after the transaction is executed. 
Constraints, such as unique keys and foreign keys, must be maintained to ensure data consistency
The word consistency means that the value should remain preserved always. 
In DBMS, the integrity of the data should be maintained, which means if a change in the database is made, it should remain preserved always.
 In the case of transactions, the integrity of the data is very essential so that the database remains consistent before and after the transaction.
 The data should always be correct.

3) Isolation
 Isolation ensures that multiple transactions can execute concurrently without interfering with each other. 
Each transaction must be isolated from other transactions until it is completed. 
This isolation prevents dirty reads, non-repeatable reads, and phantom reads

The term 'isolation' means separation. In DBMS, Isolation is the property of a database where no data should affect the other one and may occur concurrently.
 In short, the operation on one database should begin when the operation on the first database gets complete. 
It means if two operations are being performed on two different databases, they may not affect the value of one another. 
In the case of transactions, when two or more transactions occur simultaneously, the consistency should remain maintained. 
Any changes that occur in any particular transaction will not be seen by other transactions until the change is not committed in the memory.

4) Durability
Durability ensures that once a transaction is committed, its changes are permanent and will survive any subsequent system failures. 
The transaction’s changes are saved to the database permanently, and even if the system crashes, the changes remain intact and can be recovered.

Durability ensures the permanency of something. In DBMS, the term durability ensures that the data after the successful execution of the operation becomes permanent in the database. 
The durability of the data should be so perfect that even if the system fails or leads to a crash, the database still survives. 
However, if gets lost, it becomes the responsibility of the recovery manager for ensuring the durability of the database. 
For committing the values, the COMMIT command must be used every time we make changes.
Therefore, the ACID property of DBMS plays a vital role in maintaining the consistency and availability of data in the database.
Thus, it was a precise introduction of ACID properties in DBMS. We have discussed these properties in the transaction section also.